Tera-WURFL README
Beta Version 1.4.4 Stable
http://www.tera-wurfl.com/
-----------------------

ABOUT TERA-WURFL

Tera-WURFL is a PHP & MySQL based library that uses the Wireless Universal
Resource File (WURFL). The WURFL website  nicely defines the WURFL as
follows: "The WURFL is an "ambitious" configuration file that contains
info about all known Wireless devices on earth. Of course, new devices are
created and released at all times. While this configuration file is bound 
to be out of date one day after each update, chances are that the WURFL 
lists all of the WAP devices you can purchase in the nearest shops."

Tera-WURFL is loosely based on the original PHP Tools Library by Andrea 
Trasatti and serves as a drop in replacement with only minor changes to 
your existing code. Since Tera-WURFL uses a MySQL database backend, the 
real world performace increase over the existing PHP Tools (with multicache) 
implementation is extremely high - normally between 5x and 10x faster!
The author of Tera-WURFL is Steve Kamerman, a professional PHP Programmer,
MySQL DBA, Flash/Actionscript/Javascript Developer and Linux Administrator.
This project is financially sponsored by Tera Technologies and was originally
an internal project used for delivering content to customers of the mobile
ringtone and image creation site www.Tera-Tones.com.

Read more about Tera-WURFL and download the latest release at:
http://www.tera-wurfl.com

See what else Steve Kamerman has cookin' at his blog:
http://www.teratechnologies.net/stevekamerman/

INSTALLATION

1. Copy the files into a directory on your webserver that can be accessed
   from the internet.
2. Create a new database for Tera-WURFL and a user that has a minimum of
   the following privileges on the new database:
      SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, CREATE, DROP, ALTER
3. Edit the tera_wurfl_config.php file and make sure you have the database
   settings correct.
   a. Make sure WURFL_PATCH_ENABLE is set to false until you get it going
      this could cause issues if you haven't built the database yet.
   b. Make sure the DB_EMPTY METHOD is set to "DROP_CREATE" - this will
      automatically create the database tables for you.
4. Set DATADIR to a directory that is accessible (read+write) by the user
   that runs your webserver. This is normally "apache", "www-data" or 
   "nobody" on Linux. (chown -R apache:apache ./data/)
5. Go to http://yourwebserver/tera_wurfl_directory/admin/
   a. You should see the Tera-WURFL administration.  As of version 1.4.4,
      this package comes with a stable release of the wurfl.xml file.
      Since this file is constantly updated with new devices, the Web Admin
      Interface has two options for updating your wurfl database from the
      official WURFL website: 1. the current stable release; 2. the current
      development (CVS) release.  Selecting either option will download the
      appropriate WURFL (to your DATADIR/dl_wurfl.xml) and install it into
      the database.  It will also attempt to apply the WURFL patch file if
      patching is enabled.  If an error occurs while updating the device
      table, the changes are automatically rolled back and no changes to
      you database will be made.
   b. Click on "Tera-WURFL test script" to test the installation.  You can
      type in any user agent to search for it in the WURFL.  You should look
      at the source of this file to get an idea of how to use Tera-WURLF.
6. Protect your 'admin' directory by using a method specific to your web
   server software.  For Apache, this means a .htaccess file would work:
   http://www.elated.com/articles/password-protecting-your-pages-with-htaccess/

USAGE

Please see the test script (check_wurfl.php) for a complete example of usage.
There are also a couple more examples of how to use Tera-WURFL in the main
class file - tera_wurfl.php.

SUPPORT

You may contact me, Steve Kamerman with questions - once I feel that there
are too many emails to deal with I will probably put up a forum, but since
this project is still fairly new, I will just help you all out over email.

Here's my email address: kamermans(at)teratechnologies.net
      
NOTE: The public methods from the WURFL PHP Tools class at 
wurfl.sourceforge.net are avalible in this class and they all use the same
syntax as before with the exception of the constructor - "tera_wurfl" which has
been renamed from "wurfl_class".